sql: add flashback cluster doc (#10888)
pingcap/docs: sql-statements/sql-statement-flashback-to-timestamp.md

---
title: FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP
summary: Learn the usage of FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP in TiDB databases.
---

# FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP

TiDB v6.4.0 introduces the `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP` syntax. You can use it to restore a cluster to a specific point in time.

> **Warning:**
>

> > Before executing `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`, you need to pause PITR and TiCDC tasks and restart them after the `FLASHBACK` is completed. Otherwise, it might lead to synchronization failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Before executing `FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP`, you need to pause PITR and TiCDC tasks and restart them after the `FLASHBACK` is completed. Otherwise, it might lead to replication failure.
```

---
title: FLASHBACK [CLUSTER | DATABASE | TABLE] TO TIMESTAMP
summary: An overview of the usage of FLASHBACK [CLUSTER | DATABASE | TABLE] TO TIMESTAMP for the TiDB database.
---

# FLASHBACK [CLUSTER | DATABASE | TABLE] TO TIMESTAMP

The `FLASHBACK [CLUSTER | DATABASE | TABLE] TO TIMESTAMP` syntax is introduced since TiDB v6.4.0. You can use this statement to restore the data of the cluster, database, or table to a specific point in time.

## Syntax

```sql
FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP '2022-09-21 16:02:50';

> FLASHBACK DATABASE db1, db2 TO TIMESTAMP '2022-09-21 16:02:50';

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FLASHBACK DATABASE db TO TIMESTAMP '2022-09-21 16:02:50';
```

FLASHBACK TABLE tbl1, tbl2 TO TIMESTAMP '2022-09-21 16:02:50';
```

### Synopsis

```ebnf+diagram
FlashbackToTimestampStmt ::=

>     "FLASHBACK" ("CLUSTER" | "DATABASE" DBNameList | "TABLE" TableNameList) "TO" "TIMESTAMP" stringLit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "FLASHBACK" ("CLUSTER" | "DATABASE" DBName | "TABLE" TableNameList) "TO" "TIMESTAMP" stringLit
```

```

## Notes

* The time specified in the `FLASHBACK` statement must be within the Garbage Collection (GC) lifetime. The system variable [`tidb_gc_life_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_gc_life_time-new-in-v50) (default: `10m0s`) defines the retention time of earlier versions of rows. The current `safePoint` of where garbage collection has been performed up to can be obtained with the following query:

    ```sql
    SELECT * FROM mysql.tidb WHERE variable_name = 'tikv_gc_safe_point';
    ```

* Only a user with the corresponding privilege can execute the preceding SQL statement:
    * The `SUPER` privilege is required to execute `FLASHBACK CLUSTER`.
    * The `DATABASE` privilege is required to execute `FLASHBACK DATABASE`.
    * The `TABLE` privilege is required to execute `FLASHBACK TABLE`.

> * From the time specified in the `FLASHBACK` statement to the time when the `FLASHBACK` is executed, there cannot be a DDL statement that changes the related table structure. If it exists, TiDB will reject the DDL statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From the time specified in the `FLASHBACK` statement to the time when the `FLASHBACK` is executed, there cannot be a DDL statement that changes the related table structure. If such a DDL exists, TiDB will reject it.
```

> * Before executing `FLASHBACK [CLUSTER | DATABASE | TABLE] TO TIMESTAMP`, TiDB actively disconnects all related connections and prohibits read and write operations on these tables until the `FLASHBACK` statement is completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before executing `FLASHBACK [CLUSTER | DATABASE | TABLE] TO TIMESTAMP`, TiDB disconnects all related connections and prohibits read and write operations on these tables until the `FLASHBACK` statement is completed.
```

> * The `FLASHBACK [CLUSTER | DATABASE | TABLE] TO TIMESTAMP` statement cannot be canceled. Once the statement is executed, TiDB will keep retrying until it succeeds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `FLASHBACK [CLUSTER | DATABASE | TABLE] TO TIMESTAMP` statement cannot be canceled after being executed. TiDB will keep retrying until it succeeds.
```

> * Through the log, you can obtain the execution process of `FLASHBACK`. The following is an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Through the log, you can obtain the execution progress of `FLASHBACK`. The following is an example:
```

    ```
    [2022/10/09 17:25:59.316 +08:00] [INFO] [cluster.go:463] ["flashback cluster stats"] ["complete regions"=9] ["total regions"=10] []
    ```

## Example

The following example shows how to restore the newly inserted data:

```sql
mysql> CREATE TABLE t(a INT);
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.09 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t;
Empty set (0.01 sec)

mysql> SELECT now();
+---------------------+
| now()               |
+---------------------+
| 2022-09-28 17:24:16 |
+---------------------+
1 row in set (0.02 sec)

mysql> INSERT INTO t VALUES (1);
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.02 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t;
+------+
| a    |
+------+
|    1 |
+------+
1 row in set (0.01 sec)

mysql> FLASHBACK CLUSTER TO TIMESTAMP '2022-09-28 17:24:16';
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.20 sec)

mysql> SELECT * FROM t;
Empty set (0.00 sec)
```

> If there is a DDL statement that changes the table schema from the time specified in the `FLASHBACK` statement to the time when the `FLASHBACK` is executed, the statement fails:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a DDL statement that changes the table structure from the time specified in the `FLASHBACK` statement to the time when the `FLASHBACK` is executed, the `FLASHBACK` statement fails:
```
